FEA: Calibration Error (#11096)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/calibration.rst

which focus on hard samples that are close to the decision boundary (the
support vectors).

.. currentmodule:: sklearn.calibration

Two approaches for performing calibration of probabilistic predictions are
provided: a parametric approach based on Platt's sigmoid model and a
non-parametric approach based on :ref:`isotonic regression <isotonic>`.
Probability calibration should be done on new data not used for model fitting.
The :class:`CalibratedClassifierCV` class uses an internal cross-validation
procedure: for each split, the model is fit on the train samples and a
calibrator is estimated on the output of the model on the validation samples.
The probabilities predicted for the folds are then averaged. Already fitted
classifiers can be calibrated by :class:`CalibratedClassifierCV` via the
parameter ``cv="prefit"``. In this case, the user has to manually ensure that
the datasets used for model fitting and calibration are disjoint.

The following figures demonstrate the benefit of probability calibration. The
first figure presents a dataset with 2 classes and 3 blobs of data. The blob in
the middle contains random samples of each class. The probability for the

> samples in this blob should be close to 0.5.

Reviewer: Could you label the x and y axis in the graph?

Reviewer: This paragraph is also really useful - maybe it could be added to `plot_calibration.py` ?

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand what you mean by labeling the axis of the graph showing the blobs ? They don't have any specific meaning.... but I maybe missing something !

Reviewer: Maybe 'Feature 1' and 'Feature 2' ? Just to make it obvious/clear to new users?

In the example https://111067-843222-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/doc/auto_examples/calibration/plot_calibration.html, I see that you explain creation of the dataset down in the code but it would be nice if you explained the graph of the blob dataset in the text. The text above would work.

Reviewer: Ah sorry! I was just looking at the rendered docs and realise you didn't change much here. No worries, my problem is with this example not being clear enough. I guess that can be changed in separate PR

calibration curve and the diagonal (perfectly calibrated model), :func:`calibration_error`,
reported in the legend (the smaller the better).

.. figure:: ../auto_examples/calibration/images/sphx_glr_plot_calibration_curve_002.png
   :target: ../auto_examples/calibration/plot_calibration_curve.html
   :align: center

One can observe here that logistic regression is well calibrated as its curve is
nearly diagonal. Linear SVC's calibration curve or reliability diagram has a
sigmoid curve, which is typical for an under-confident classifier. In the case of
LinearSVC, this is caused by the margin property of the hinge loss, which lets
the model focus on hard samples that are close to the decision boundary
(the support vectors). Both kinds of calibration can fix this issue and yield
nearly identical results. The next figure shows the calibration curve of
Gaussian naive Bayes on the same data, with both kinds of calibration and also
without calibration.

.. figure:: ../auto_examples/calibration/images/sphx_glr_plot_calibration_curve_001.png
   :target: ../auto_examples/calibration/plot_calibration_curve.html
   :align: center

> One can see that Gaussian naive Bayes performs very badly but does so in an
> other way than linear SVC: While linear SVC exhibited a sigmoid calibration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can see that Gaussian naive Bayes performs very badly but does so in another
way than linear SVC: While linear SVC exhibited a sigmoid calibration
```
